FITNESS TERMS

BMI
Body mass index is a value derived from the mass and height of a person. 
The BMI is defined as the body mass divided by the square of the body height, 
and is expressed in units of kg/m², resulting from abundance in kilograms and height in meters.
USA Formula: weight (lb) / [height (in)]2 x 703
Then, calculate BMI by dividing weight in pounds (lb) by height in inches (in) squared 
and multiplying by a conversion factor of 703.
Underweight = 18.5
Normal weight = 18.5–24.9
Overweight = 25–29.9
Obesity = BMI of 30 or greater

BMR
Basal metabolic rate (BMR) is the total number of calories your body needs to perform essential, life-sustaining functions. 
These basal functions include circulation, breathing, cell production, nutrient processing, protein synthesis, and ion transport. 
You can calculate the basal metabolic rate using a mathematical formula. 
Knowing your basal metabolic rate helps determine the estimated baseline amount of calories your body 
requires to function. This works as a starting point to determine how many calories you may want to consume 
based on your goals. Below, learn more about the basal metabolic rate and how it applies to you.
The basal metabolic rate measures the calories needed to perform your body's most basic (basal) functions, 
like breathing, circulation, and cell production. BMR is most accurately measured in a lab setting under 
very restrictive conditions. 
Resting metabolic rate is a measurement of the number of calories that your body burns at rest. 
Resting metabolic rate is usually measured in the morning before you eat or exercise and 
after a whole night of restful sleep. 
How to estimate your BMR 
One popular way to estimate BMR is through the Harris-Benedict formula, which takes into account 
weight, height, age, and gender.
Women:
BMR = 655 + (9.6 × weight in kg) + (1.8 × height in cm) – (4.7 × age in years)
Men:
BMR = 66 + (13.7 × weight in kg) + (5 × height in cm) – (6.8 × age in years)

Macro
"macro" is short for macronutrients.
In the context of health and fitness, macronutrients are most often defined as the chemical compounds humans consume
in large quantities that provide bulk energy. Specifically, they refer to carbohydrates, proteins, and fats. 
Some definitions also include water, air, calcium, sodium, chloride ions, other substances, and more specific macronutrients since they are needed in significant quantities by the human body. 
This calculator only calculates daily carbohydrate, protein, and fat needs.
It's Beneficial to calculate Macro to know how much you need (Protein, Carbs, Fat) Daily to reach your goal
and the body you dream of. It's Calculated by: Age, Gender, Height, Weight, Activity, and Goal.

Calories
A calorie is a unit of energy. For historical reasons, two main definitions of "calorie" are widely used. 
The large calorie, food calorie, or kilogram calorie was initially defined as the amount of heat 
needed to raise the temperature of one kilogram of water by one degree Celsius.

Protein
Protein is an essential macronutrient.
Protein is found throughout the body—in muscle, bone, skin, hair, 
and virtually every other body part or tissue.
Protein is the building block of your muscles. Therefore, eating adequate amounts of protein 
helps you maintain your muscle mass and promotes muscle growth when you do strength training. 
Numerous studies show that eating plenty of protein can help increase muscle mass and strength.
The National Academy of Medicine recommends that adults get a minimum of 0.8 grams of protein 
for every kilogram daily, or just over 7 grams for every 20 pounds.
For a 140-pound person, that means about 50 grams of protein each day.

Carbs
Carbohydrates are a macronutrient — one of the three primary ways the body uses energy. 
Carbs are starches, sugars, and fibers found in grains, vegetables, fruit, and milk products. 
While carbohydrates are essential to a healthy diet, they can be harmful in excess.
These eight foods are some of the high-carbohydrate foods that should be avoided:
Soft Pretzel, Processed Cereal, Canned Fruit, Doughnuts, Soda, Potato or Corn Chips, Gummy Candy, French Fries.
Healthful low-carb Foods:
Eggs, Meat, beef, Chicken, Seafood, Fish, Dark Chocolate, Broccoli, Tomatoes, Onions, Cauliflower, Spinach
Zucchini, Cabbage, Avocado, Olives, Lemons, Kiwis, Oranges, Raspberries, Cheese, Full-Fat Yogurt, and Butter.

FATS
Healthy fat helps our bodies function in terms of:
energy
hormone production
nutrient absorption
cell growth
insulation from cold
organ protection
Two types:
Saturated: This is the so-called "bad" fat. 
It's primarily found in animal products like beef, pork, 
and high-fat dairy foods, like butter, margarine, cream, and cheese.
Unsaturated: 
This is the healthy kind, and there are two types: 
1. Monounsaturated fats are found in high concentrations in:
Olive, peanut, and canola oils, Avocados, 
Nuts such as almonds, hazelnuts, and pecans
Seeds such as pumpkin and sesame seeds.
2. Polyunsaturated fats are found in high concentrations in:
Sunflower, corn, soybean, and flaxseed oils, Walnuts, Flax seeds, Fish, Canola oil – 
though higher in monounsaturated fat, it's also a good source of polyunsaturated fat.
Omega-3 fats are an important type of polyunsaturated fat. The body can't make these, so they must come from food.
An excellent way to get omega-3 fats is by eating fish 2-3 times a week.
Good plant sources of omega-3 fats include flax seeds, walnuts, and canola or soybean oil.
