- Protein Supplement
Getting enough protein is critical for gaining muscle.
Specifically, to gain strength, you need to consume more protein than 
your body breaks down through natural processes.
The most popular are whey, casein, and soy protein. 
Other protein supplements contain protein isolated from eggs, beef, 
chicken or other sources.
It's for people who aren't getting enough protein in their regular diet.
very high amounts of protein supplements don't help increase muscle 
if you are already following a high-protein diet.
- Weight Gainers
Weight gainers are high-calorie products that contain large amounts of carbohydrates and protein. 
These products can help you gain weight if added to your regular diet, 
but they are not better than eating more real food.
Nutritional supplements such as weight gainers can have a deteriorating effect on your health when consumed in excess, 
especially ones that have been incorporated with too much protein. 
This can lead to mass gainer effects such as the formation of kidney stones within the body. 
It Could Increase The Risk Of Diabetes.
Issues With Digestion
Liver Damage

Conclusion
The best way to avoid most of these mass gainer side effects would be to get your nutrition from natural 
and whole sources of foods with minerals such as fruits and vegetables.
- BCAA'S
The branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs) are a group of three essential amino acids: 
leucine, isoleucine and valine. 
They are essential, meaning they can't be produced by your body and must be obtained from food. 
BCAA supplements have been shown to build muscle, decrease fatigue, and alleviate muscle soreness.
- Pre-workout Supplement
It's a multi-ingredient dietary formula to boost your energy and athletic performance.
Pre-workout supplements often include some of the common compounds that your body uses to make nitric oxide. 
These include L-arginine, L-citrulline, and sources of dietary nitrates, such as beetroot juice.
Beta-alanine is an amino acid that's included in many pre-workout formulas because it may help prevent acid 
buildup in your muscle tissue
Creatine
Creatine is a molecule that's produced naturally in your body. 
It provides energy for your muscles and other tissues.
Taking it as a dietary supplement can increase muscle creatine content 
by up to 40% beyond its normal levels

Why creatine?
 Creatine helps to maintain a continuous supply of energy to working muscles by keeping production up in working muscles.
Every Type Of Workout
Creatine monohydrate: 3-5 g, any time of day
Caffeine
There's a good reason caffeine is the most popular stimulant in the world. 
It's been shown to boost energy levels before and during a workout, 
increase fat oxidation (using fat for fuel), and reduce fatigue.
Caffeine: 150-300 mg, 30-60 min. before your workout (depending on tolerance)
- Vitamins
Vitamin B6, folate, and B12 are arguably the essential B vitamins for muscle growth and recovery! 
Both vitamins B6 and B12 have a direct role in protein metabolism.
Vitamin B2
This one also supports energy production, so it is vital for anyone trying to make significant gains at the gym. 
This supplement can also work wonders after you lift — reducing soreness after a good workout. 
This helps to get you back into the gym sooner rather than waiting a long time for muscle recovery. 
You can get this in many animal foods, like trout, beef, dairy, and lamb. Vegans have other options.

Vitamin B9 (Folate or Folic Acid)
Vitamin B9 is vital for muscle growth. Here's what you should know: 
Folic acid is the synthetic (artificial; produced by chemical biosynthesis) version of vitamin B9. 
Folate, however, is vitamin B9 that occurs naturally in food, according to Breaking Muscle. 
It is also available in supplement form.
Vitamin E is well-known for its skin-loving properties, but it isn't just for your skin. 
Vitamin E not only slows down aging and scavenges free radicals 
(substances from the environment or toxins that are harmful to our health and can cause chronic illness), 
but also helps flush out metabolic waste.
Vitamin C is a water-soluble vitamin that must be obtained from the diet or supplements.
Vitamin C supplements have been found to lower blood pressure.
It's a powerful antioxidant that can strengthen your body's natural defenses.
Helps prevent iron deficiency.
Boosts immunity.
Protects your memory and thinking as you age.
Zinc 
Supports several functions in the human body. As well as supporting the immune system, 
it enables the body to make proteins and DNA, contributes to wound healing, 
and plays a role in childhood growth and development. It also has antioxidant properties.
Good sources are beans, nuts, crab, lobster, whole grains, breakfast cereals, and dairy products.
Magnesium
Magnesium is the fourth most abundant mineral in your body. Your body can't work correctly without it.
The nutrient is essential for hundreds of metabolic processes and other critical bodily functions, 
from producing energy to building essential proteins.
It's found in a wide variety of foods: Nuts, Legumes, Whole grains, Leafy greens, and Seeds.
Omega-3 Fatty Acids
According to recent human studies, omega-3 fatty acids (like those from fish) "can influence the exercise 
and nutritional response of skeletal muscle" and reduce post-exercise muscle soreness.
Omega-3s have been found to speed up recovery and boost muscle growth on top of providing support 
to our cardiovascular, eyes, joints, brain, and skin health. 
The body needs to get omega-3 fatty acids from foods such as walnuts, eggs, and fish. 
(like mackerel and sardines) and avocados. You can also take a daily fish oil supplement to boost your omega-3s.

How to Increase Testosterone? 
•	Get Zinc
•	Vitamin D
•	Magnesium
•	Sleep Well
•	Exercise 
•	Calories.
